README.md, before:

# Wherobots Examples

This repository contains the notebook examples that Wherobots provide for customers.
Those examples provide various examples of spatial analytics and spatial data
processing use cases showcasing the capabilities of [Apache Sedona](https://sedona.apache.org)
and [WherobotsDB](https://wherobots.com/wherobots-db/).

## Contributing

When raising a PR, make sure to run pre-commit hooks to ensure that the notebooks are cleaned and the `README` is updated.

```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```

Sometimes this will fail and update your notebooks or the `README` file. Generally, you can re-run the
command and it will pass as the pre-commit hooks will fix the issues it finds.

## Documentation publishing

Notebooks in this repository are automatically converted to MDX format and published to the [Wherobots documentation](https://docs.wherobots.com) site. This happens via a GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/convert-notebooks.yml`) that runs when notebooks are modified on the `main` branch.

### How it works

1. **Conversion**: The `notebook_to_mdx.py` script converts `.ipynb` files to `.mdx` format, extracting markdown and code cells while generating appropriate frontmatter.
2. **Navigation**: The `update_docs_navigation.py` script updates the docs navigation structure to include the converted notebooks under "Spatial Analytics Tutorials" > "Example Notebooks".
3. **Publishing**: A PR is automatically created against the `wherobots/docs` repository with the converted files.

### Adding a new notebook

When you add a new notebook to this repository, you **must** update the navigation mapping so it appears in the correct category in the documentation:

1. Edit `.github/workflows/scripts/update_docs_navigation.py`
2. Add your notebook to the `FILENAME_TO_CATEGORY` dictionary with the appropriate category
3. The filename key should be lowercase with hyphens (e.g., `My_New_Notebook.ipynb` becomes `"my-new-notebook"`)

Example:
```python
FILENAME_TO_CATEGORY = {
    # ... existing entries ...
    "my-new-notebook": "Analyzing Data",  # Add your notebook here
}
```

Available categories:
- `"Getting Started"`
- `"Analyzing Data"`
- `"RasterFlow"`
- `"Reading and Writing Data"`
- `"Open Data Connections"`
- `"Scala"`

If you don't add your notebook to the mapping, it will appear under an "Other" category in the documentation.

**Note**: Notebooks with the `Raster_Inference_` prefix are excluded from documentation publishing.

## Repository structure

```
.
|-- Analyzing_Data
|   |-- Clustering_DBSCAN.ipynb
|   |-- GPS_Map_Matching.ipynb
|   |-- Getis_Ord_Gi*.ipynb
|   |-- Isochrones.ipynb
|   |-- K_Nearest_Neighbor_Join.ipynb
|   |-- Local_Outlier_Factor.ipynb
|   |-- PMTiles-railroad.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Bring_Your_Own_Model.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Bring_Your_Own_Rasters_NAIP.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_CHM.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_ChangeDetection.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Chesapeake.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_FTW.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_S2_Mosaic.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Tile2Net.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Bring_Your_Own_Model.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Classification.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Object_Detection.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Segmentation.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Text_To_Segments_Airplanes.ipynb
|   `-- Zonal_Stats_ESAWorldCover_Texas.ipynb
|-- CONTRIBUTING.md
|-- Getting_Started
|   |-- Part_1_Loading_Data.ipynb
|   |-- Part_2_Reading_Spatial_Files.ipynb
|   |-- Part_3_Accelerating_Geospatial_Datasets.ipynb
|   `-- Part_4_Spatial_Joins.ipynb
|-- Makefile
|-- Open_Data_Connections
|   |-- ESA_WorldCover.ipynb
|   |-- Foursquare_Places.ipynb
|   |-- NOAA_SWDI.ipynb
|   `-- Overture_Maps.ipynb
|-- Reading_and_Writing_Data
|   |-- Loading_Common_Spatial_File_Types.ipynb
|   |-- Map_Tile_Generation.ipynb
|   |-- STAC_Reader.ipynb
|   `-- Unity_Catalog_Delta_Tables.ipynb
`-- scala
    |-- Getting_Started.ipynb
    `-- packaging-example-project
        |-- pom.xml
        `-- src
            |-- main
            `-- test

```

### Assets folder

The following describes the purpose of each assets' subfolder:

- `.../assets/conf` - Map style configurations and other notebook settings
- `.../assets/img` -  Images used in the notebooks.

Commit message:

feat: combine notebook workflow improvements (cleanup orphaned MDX + CI enforcement)
Combines the work from PR #125 and PR #118:

- Add cleanup_orphaned_mdx.py script to remove orphaned MDX files when
  notebooks are deleted or renamed
- Add check-notebooks.yml CI workflow to enforce that PRs modifying
  notebooks also update the navigation config
- Dynamically discover notebook directories instead of hardcoding them
- Use git add -A to stage deletions in the docs sync workflow
- Include deleted file list in auto-generated docs PR descriptions
- Add cleanup target to Makefile, run it before convert in preview/all
- Update README to reflect NOTEBOOK_LOCATIONS config and document
  the orphan cleanup behavior

README.md, after:

# Wherobots Examples

This repository contains the notebook examples that Wherobots provide for customers.
Those examples provide various examples of spatial analytics and spatial data
processing use cases showcasing the capabilities of [Apache Sedona](https://sedona.apache.org)
and [WherobotsDB](https://wherobots.com/wherobots-db/).

## Contributing

When raising a PR, make sure to run pre-commit hooks to ensure that the notebooks are cleaned and the `README` is updated.

```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```

Sometimes this will fail and update your notebooks or the `README` file. Generally, you can re-run the
command and it will pass as the pre-commit hooks will fix the issues it finds.

## Documentation publishing

Notebooks in this repository are automatically converted to MDX format and published to the [Wherobots documentation](https://docs.wherobots.com) site. This happens via a GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/convert-notebooks.yml`) that runs when notebooks are modified on the `main` branch.

### How it works

1. **Conversion**: The `notebook_to_mdx.py` script converts `.ipynb` files to `.mdx` format, extracting markdown and code cells while generating appropriate frontmatter.
2. **Navigation**: The `update_docs_navigation.py` script updates the docs navigation structure to include the converted notebooks under "Spatial Analytics Tutorials" > "Example Notebooks".
3. **Publishing**: A PR is automatically created against the `wherobots/docs` repository with the converted files.

### Adding a new notebook

When you add a new notebook to this repository, you **must** update the navigation mapping so it appears in the correct location in the documentation. A CI check will block your PR if you add or modify a notebook without updating the config.

1. Edit `.github/workflows/scripts/update_docs_navigation.py`
2. Add your notebook to the `NOTEBOOK_LOCATIONS` dictionary with the appropriate navigation path
3. The filename key should be lowercase with hyphens (e.g., `My_New_Notebook.ipynb` becomes `"my-new-notebook"`)
4. The value is a list of group names representing the path in the docs navigation hierarchy

Example:
```python
NOTEBOOK_LOCATIONS = {
    # ... existing entries ...
    "my-new-notebook": ["Advanced Topics"],  # Top-level group
    "my-spatial-stats-notebook": ["WherobotsAI", "Spatial Statistics"],  # Nested group
}
```

Available top-level groups:
- `["Getting Started"]`
- `["Data Connections"]`
- `["RasterFlow"]`
- `["Advanced Topics"]`

Available nested groups:
- `["WherobotsDB", "Vector Tiles (PMTiles)"]`
- `["WherobotsAI", "Spatial Statistics"]`
- `["WherobotsAI"]`

If you don't add your notebook to the mapping, it will be skipped in the navigation and a warning will be printed.

**Note**: Notebooks with the `Raster_Inference_` prefix are excluded from documentation publishing.

### Deleted or renamed notebooks

When notebooks are deleted or renamed, the corresponding MDX files and images in the docs repo are automatically cleaned up by the `cleanup_orphaned_mdx.py` script, which runs before conversion in both the CI workflow and `make preview`/`make all`.

## Repository structure

```
.
|-- Analyzing_Data
|   |-- Clustering_DBSCAN.ipynb
|   |-- GPS_Map_Matching.ipynb
|   |-- Getis_Ord_Gi*.ipynb
|   |-- Isochrones.ipynb
|   |-- K_Nearest_Neighbor_Join.ipynb
|   |-- Local_Outlier_Factor.ipynb
|   |-- PMTiles-railroad.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Bring_Your_Own_Model.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Bring_Your_Own_Rasters_NAIP.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_CHM.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_ChangeDetection.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Chesapeake.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_FTW.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_S2_Mosaic.ipynb
|   |-- RasterFlow_Tile2Net.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Bring_Your_Own_Model.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Classification.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Object_Detection.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Segmentation.ipynb
|   |-- Raster_Inference_Text_To_Segments_Airplanes.ipynb
|   `-- Zonal_Stats_ESAWorldCover_Texas.ipynb
|-- CONTRIBUTING.md
|-- Getting_Started
|   |-- Part_1_Loading_Data.ipynb
|   |-- Part_2_Reading_Spatial_Files.ipynb
|   |-- Part_3_Accelerating_Geospatial_Datasets.ipynb
|   `-- Part_4_Spatial_Joins.ipynb
|-- Makefile
|-- Open_Data_Connections
|   |-- ESA_WorldCover.ipynb
|   |-- Foursquare_Places.ipynb
|   |-- NOAA_SWDI.ipynb
|   `-- Overture_Maps.ipynb
|-- Reading_and_Writing_Data
|   |-- Loading_Common_Spatial_File_Types.ipynb
|   |-- Map_Tile_Generation.ipynb
|   |-- STAC_Reader.ipynb
|   `-- Unity_Catalog_Delta_Tables.ipynb
`-- scala
    |-- Getting_Started.ipynb
    `-- packaging-example-project
        |-- pom.xml
        `-- src
            |-- main
            `-- test

```

### Assets folder

The following describes the purpose of each assets' subfolder:

- `.../assets/conf` - Map style configurations and other notebook settings
- `.../assets/img` -  Images used in the notebooks.
